Presently she began again. "I wonder if I shall fall fight through the earth! How funny it'll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads downwards! The antipathies, I think-" (she was rather glad there was no one listening, this time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) "-but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know. Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand? Or Australia?" (and she tried to curtsey as she spoke- fancy, curtseying as you're falling through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) "And what an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking! No, it'll never do to ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere."
Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began talking again. "Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I should think!" (Dinah was the cat.) "I hope they'll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time. Dinah, my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder?" And here Alice began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy son of way, "Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?" and sometimes "Do bats eat cats?" for, you see, as she couldn't answer either question, it didn't much matter which way she put it. She felt that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and was saying to her, very earnestly, "Now, Dinah, tell me the truth: did you ever eat a bat?" when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.
Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment: she looked up, but it was all dark overhead: before her was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it. There was not a moment to be lost: away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a comer, "Oh my ears and whiskers, how late it's getting!" She was close behind it when she turned the comer, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen: she found herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof.
There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how she was ever to get out again.
Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid glass: there was nothing on it but a tiny golden key, and Alice's first idea was that this might belong to one of the doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second time round, she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: she tried the little golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

One thing was certain, that the white kitten had had nothing to do with it: - it was the black kitten's fault entirely. For the white kitten had been having its face washed by the old cat for the last quarter of an hour (and bearing it pretty well, considering); so you see that it couldn't have had any hand in the mischief.
The way Dinah washed her children's faces was this: first she held the poor thing down by its ear with one paw, and then with the other paw she rubbed its face all over, the wrong way, beginning at the nose: and just now, as I said, she was hard at work on the white kitten, which was lying quite still and trying to purr - no doubt feeling that it was all meant for its good.
But the black kitten had been finished with earlier in the afternoon, and so, while Alice was sitting curled up in a corner of the great arm-chair, half talking to herself and half asleep, the kitten had been having a grand game of romps with the ball of worsted Alice had been trying to wind up, and had been rolling it up and down till it had all come undone again; and there it was, spread over the hearth-rug, all knots and tangles, with the kitten running after its own tail in the middle.

This lesson inaugurates the second half of the seventy-fourth year in the presentation of the Sabian philosophy and begins a series of twenty-six studies in a book that in barely more than a generation had become immortal and is a consideration of the first chapter of Alice in Wonderland. The lessons will deal in order with the twelve chapters of Wonderland, the twelve chapters of Looking-Glass and two supernumerary studies. The first great principle of wisdom in the Sabian philosophy as revealed through the adventures of Alice is that everything in life is a sacrament. In the field of philosophy the full power of idea in this concept of sacrament is often unappreciated because of the association with ecclesiastical establishments, but while a sacrament as the outward and visible sign of grace inwardly received naturally would have a great deal to do with church ritual nevertheless ritual is something larger than the observance of religious rites and a sacrament therefore involves much more than the elements in the Eucharist. The principle of life itself as a sacramental establishment was brought out in the Ibn Gabirol lessons. There the student sees that all activity of being is made possible by the interlocking ritual of the cosmos itself. The whole substance of the Alice narratives is renewed demonstration. In the lessons on Grimm's Fairy Tales the stories reveal the structure of being and they unlock practically every mystery of the operation of the soul, and this was discovered to be the direct result of the fact that the stories were handed down through the human heart or were preserved because they were loved and it is impossible to love except as ritual. Nothing remains in human memory without some tie to experience, and the race cannot hold or hand down ideas that are not enough in tune with the eternal structure to become part of racial experience. So it is that some stories die and others live and the same principle operates in every department of life. In the lessons on the 1001 Nights, because of the extreme tenacity with which these stories remained in the Near East consciousness, it became possible to extract from them the complete and perfect psychology that as the basis of the Sabian applied system has demonstrated itself with almost infallible accuracy. The adventures of Alice would recommend themselves by the mere virtue of their survival alone but there are added considerations that give them unique value in the field of philosophy.
Of principal importance is the fact that they were written by a mathematician. Mathematics is a divine science not because of its abstractions but because of what its study does to the consciousness. An untutored individual turning to nonsense produces non-sense. Even Lewis Carroll himself when building on a conscious working at nonsense produced the relatively infantile Hunting of the Snark. But the so-called nonsense allowed to emanate spontaneously from a brain that has grooved itself in accordance with cosmic ritual almost infallibly will bring forth something of cosmic significance. This alone carried to its logical conclusion is the explanation of all inspiration whether through alcohol or more constructive agency. It is not coincidence that the wholly explicable working of the cosmic ritual creates such wonderland as this present study. There are occult factors such as the circumstance that Lewis Carroll wrote the book and not some other mathematician, but the explanation rather than being different is simply more detailed. Here for instance is the item of occult catalysis or coincidence of inspiration in the fact that the eldest Liddell child is named Alice, a Greek word meaning truth, because the bearing of the name by the youngster indicates to the occult student the outer indication of her possession of these catalytic qualities.
The first chapter reveals the sacramental factor pictured by the bottle of liquid or the element of wine with description of its flavor and the little cake or the element of bread. The drink-me and eat-me of the labels represent the idea of compulsion in cosmic process or the first law of abstract being as persistency in being. The drinking, or wine as blood or consciousness or spirit, is the compulsion of spirit's descent into matter dramatized in growing smaller and smaller whereas the eating or metabolism through which matter is forced to be ensouled progressively by higher and higher forms of life is the compulsion of matter's ascent into full participation in spirit as dramatized by growing higher and higher. These details are too perfect for a cry of coincidence and continue to bear weight forever. Such is the wolf! wolf! of the materialists.
The achievement of imagination in the book, or the first great scientific anticipation, is in the proper employment of symbolism. The function of symbols is to give form to spiritual concept. Whatever serves as symbol is not itself the symbol but rather the symbol is idea to which the form gives substance in addition to giving substance to its own being. Carroll here unwittingly anticipated the dictum recently popularized by modern science as anything that man imagines he may achieve. This is quoted from the Latin by Montaigne as a saying of the wise and so is far from modern. Everything goes back to consciousness as it is taught in the Sabian work, or interest as conventional psychology and science state it, and the positive basis of all interest is living activity. Thus Alice didn't like the book there by the river's bank on the July afternoon because it didn't have conversations or illustrations. Modern editorial policy well recognizes this in its demand for dialogue and illustrations and it is curious here to note that the coincident genius of John Tenniel has survived the growth of a whole new technique of illustrative art. Actually, the book is incomplete without his incomparable woodcuts. The negative basis of interest is its need to stamp itself in life or to express itself. Thus Alice in falling had to talk. Similarly every person or group of people has to talk, and the wisdom and lack of wisdom in giving or withholding free speech is here seen. It is necessary to link this expression and interest to the known, and it is illuminating to see Alice constantly using Dinah as the subject of conversation.
